**SEP**: 2  
**Title**: Relay Extension  
**Version**: 1.0  
**Last-Modified**: 6-Nov-2024  
**Author**: Brad Eagle <brad@bradeagle.com>  
**Status**: Active  
**Type**: Process  
**Created**: 6-Nov-2024

# Relay Extension

The purpose of this extension is to allow nodes to be aware of
relays within the SecTorrent network. This will however require
some heavy modification to the current BitTorrent protocol,
but this is still possible without breaking the current protocol.

The goal is to allow for nodes to still be capable of utilizing
the pre-existing BitTorrent network while allowing a modified
varient so that nodes with the SecTorrent protocol can relay
off of each other for DHT messages and UTP seeding / downloading.

Considerations
-----

Within a distributed model no node can be 100% trusted as there
is no way of knowing that a node is compromised. One way to
fix this is to have a select few set of nodes that sign certificates
(like TOR) however this removes the nature of a distributed network
and makes it a decentralized network which is not the goal.

We do need to be careful to ensure that nodes cannot lie stating that
they are multiple nodes, one instance would be that Alice connects to
Bob and then tries to connect to Charlie but Charlie is Bob. This would
mean that the entire relay chain is just Bob and Alice was never anonymous.

Key IDs
-----

We can add public keys and a signature of the entirety of the bencode
responses so that we can ensure that a node is who they state they are.
We can then verify the signature with the public key and message to
ensure that the message came from who we expect.

By adding a public key and a signature we can ensure that no single node
can modify a response to the requester. We will be using Sphincs+ as it is
allows for signatures and it is smarter to build off of quantum proof algorithms
now rather than worry about it later on.

Response:
```json
{
	"t": "aa",
	"y": "r",
	"r": {
		"id": "mnopqrstuvwxyz123456",
		"key": "mnopqrstuvwxyz123456mnopqrstuvwxyz123456",
		"port": "aa"
	}
}
```
```
d1:rd2:id20:mnopqrstuvwxyz123456e3:key40:mnopqrstuvwxyz123456mnopqrstuvwxyz1234564:port2:aa1:t2:aa1:y1:re
```

Assumption of Trust
-----

Unfortunately there is no way to garuntee that any node is not bad,
however we can mitigate this problem by by adding another variable to
our routing tables. This variable is "trust" which will be a percentage.
We will assume that a bootstrap node is 100% trustworthy as we have to
start with some trust for this method to work.

When a node contacts a bootstrap node via FIND_NODE they will receive a
list of nodes as a response, which will contain IP, PORT, NODE_ID, and
NODE_PUBLIC_KEY. When we contact each node we can throw away the
PUBLIC_KEY given by the new nodes response and verify the SIGNATURE
of the response based off of the NODE_PUBLIC_KEY received by the
bootstrap node. If the node gives a response with an invalid signature
we will assume 0% trust and put that node in a NO_RESPOND list. However
if the signature is valid we will add this node to the routing table
with a 50% trust, each time we add a new node we will take the previous
nodes trust and half it.

Example: If we ask the node that is trusted at 50% for a new valid node,
the subsequent node will inherit a trust of 25%.

Nodes can gain trust by residing within a different country than
your country. If Alice is from the USA and Bob is within Russia
then Bobs trust will gain 25%. This is to help prevent one bad
actor from gaining large amounts of trust.

If a node changes their PUBLIC_KEY they should not be trusted
for up to 24 hours.

If a node gives 50% or greater of the nodes with invalid
PUBLIC_KEYs that node should be removed.

Nodes can gain trust based off of if they give 90% or more
nodes that have valid PUBLIC_KEYs.

UTP Relay
-----

Nodes should host a relay via uTorrent Transport Protocol also
known as Micro Transport Protocol. This relay can be on any port
however should be accessible to the world.

When nodes respond with a PING within the DHT nodes should reply
with there RELAY_PORT.

Response:
```json
{
	"t": "aa",
	"y": "r",
	"r": {
		"id": "mnopqrstuvwxyz123456",
		"key": "mnopqrstuvwxyz123456mnopqrstuvwxyz123456",
		"port": "aa"
	}
}
```
```
d1:rd2:id20:mnopqrstuvwxyz123456e3:key40:mnopqrstuvwxyz123456mnopqrstuvwxyz1234564:port2:aa1:t2:aa1:y1:re
```


We should save the RELAY_PORT within our routing table for later
when we decide to relay to them.

Within UTP relay the server should expect the first message to
be a handshake as shown:

**Protocol Header**  
Description: `This will always be 2 bytes being "OC"`  
Length: `2`  
Value: `OC`

**DH Public Key Length**  
Description: `Diffi Helmen Public Key length - always 4 bytes`  
Length: `4`

**DH Public Key**  
Description: `Diffi Helmen Public Key read to length given`  
Length: `x`

**IV**  
Description: `Encryption IV with the length of 16 bytes`  
Length: `16`


The server should then generate a diffi helmen key based off
of the public key given and a private key that it has generated.
The server should then send:


**Protocol Header**  
Description: `This will always be 2 bytes being "OC"`  
Length: `2`  
Value: `OC`

**DH Public Key Length**  
Description: `Diffi Helmen Public Key length - always 4 bytes`  
Length: `4`

**DH Public Key**  
Description: `Diffi Helmen Public Key read to length given`  
Length: `x`

**Signature**  
Description: `Signature of the DH Public Key we generated via our DHT PUBLIC_KEY`  
Length: `x`

At this point the client should verify the signature. If the
signature is invalid the client should close the connection
and add the Node to a NO_RESPOND. If the signature is valid
the node should generate the secret via diffi helmen key based
off the generated private key and the given public key.

At this point both the server and client can communicate securely
without evesdropping via AES/CTR/NoPadding. The next thing the client
should do is let the relay know where to go to next. We will handle this
by sending:

**Address Type**  
Description: `Address Type, IPv4 or IPv6`  
Length: `1`

**Address**  
Description: `IP Address`  
Length: `(4 or 16)`

**Port**  
Description: `Port`  
Length: `2`
